Let's get started.
We already talked about takeaways and
things like that.
Let's start with the history of Node.
So, I think it's important to see where
Node has come and how we got here.
It's just a bunch of stuff here, but
I'm just gonna describe it in my own way.
Node.js is basically just
an environment in which you can run
JavaScript outside of the browser.
That's where it started, right?
If you think of languages like Python,
Ruby, PHP,
these are operating system languages.
These are languages that run
directly on your computer.
You can run those programs
through your terminal.
Before Node.js came out,
you couldn't do that with JavaScript.
JavaScript was only a language
that could be run in a browser.
It was considered a kiddy language.
People didn't really take it
seriously because it was like,
you get to make a scrolling thing
on my space page or something.
No one took it seriously
until Node.js came out.
Some guy named Ryan got really sick of
Not having JavaScripts on his computer,
so he made Node.js, which basically was
like a fork of V8 which at the time
was Google's engine that they created to
to run JavaScript in the Chrome browsers.
So he took that engine and stuck it
on a computer, and that's Node.js.
So there were some differences though,
right?
The browser version of JavaScript
has access to things that
are only useful in a browser like a DOB,
CSS, things like that.
Whereas when you're running something on a
computer, there is no visual output other
than a terminal, so there's no need for
a DOB or CSS or things like that.
So that's where the differences are.
But Node.js itself is not a language.
It's an environment, it's a runtime.
The language itself is JavaScript.
So if you know JavaScript,
then you already know 90% of Node.js.
It's literally the same language.
Just some slight differences and
capabilities on what you can do with it.
So we'll cover a lot of that.
But it's been around since 2009, and since
then, it's been adopted by the community.
As you know,
every hosting provider supports Node.js.
It's probably one of the most
popular server-side frameworks or
server-side runtimes out there,
and it's currently on version 18,
which is what we'll be using today.
So if you don't have that,
don't worry about it.
We'll go through my preferred
method on how to install it.
And there was a time where people
thought Node.js was gonna die, like back
when it was like on version 0.12, it kinda
stagnated and there was no traction.
So the community got fed up and
like forked it and
they made this thing called IO.js.
That was so long ago.
There was this whole thing.
So someone made IO.js cuz they got
sick of Node.js not being updated.
And then that sparked a fire
underneath Node.js like, all right,
we'll get our shit together,
and we'll update our stuff.
So ever since then,
there's been a lot of updates.
Node.js has adopting a lot of things,
there's like a board of smart people that
come together and make sure things are up
to date, it's following ECMO script,
it's in feature parity with things
that happening in the browser.
So it's been taken seriously and
things are popping off now.
So yeah, and today a lot of people
use Node.js in production for
all different types of things, whether
it's like a server, or proxy, build tools.
If you've ever used React or
any front end framework,
100% uses Node.js to build that framework.
That's the tool that converts your JSX
to HTML or JavaScript for the browser,
it's node, unless you're using like
some new thing that you just rust which
everyone's went to that today.
But still, Node.js is pretty much powers
everything in web development at this
point, there's really no way around it.